Chapter 7. Two types of tailoring.  Now that we've laid out an organizational framework for building and deploying commercial insight, let's examine how suppliers might tailor that insight to better connect to individual customer stakeholders. The ultimate goal in any solution sale, of course, isn't to get stakeholders to believe your insight. It's to get customer organizations to buy your solution. To do that, however, requires customers to do something else. To change their behavior. That decision to change organizational behavior isn't an individual choice, but a collective 1. So does that mean that tailoring insight for individual stakeholder residents no longer matters in this world? Not at all. In fact, just the opposite. But it matters in context. To demonstrate how, let's place commercial insight back into the context of a customer purchase. You'll remember in chapter one we introduced a simple framework for a typical customer purchase process spanning 2 movements. In the first movement from phase one to phase 2A, supplier is looking to win agreement from one or two customer stakeholders that change is even necessary in the first place. Think of this as establishing a beachhead in the battle against status quo. Yet, as we saw in Chapter 2, in this early stage of the purchase process, all customer stakeholders are not created equal. After all, suppliers aren't looking to get the 5.4 to agree, they're looking to get the 5.4 to change. So carefully connecting to the people most willing and able to drive that change not only matters, it matters deeply. These are the mobilizers, and this is exactly why connecting with mobilizers matters so much. However, five years of customer research tells us that tailoring to mobilizers is far more important than tailoring to stakeholders more generally. First and foremost, suppliers must tailor their approach to identify and appeal to those with the highest potential to either be or become a mobilizer. In a moment, we'll turn to the steps a supplier might take to create that kind of tailored message in the first place. That said, there isn't just one type of mobilizer. There are three. The go getter, the teacher and the skeptic. Each a little bit different, requiring a different approach and different kinds of support. At this level, sales reps in particular can vary precisely modify their approach to one test whether they're even meeting with a mobilizer in the first place at all, and then to ensure that they're tailoring their approach to resonate most effectively with whatever type of mobilizer they're meeting with at that moment. So after we look at creating more tailored appeals to mobilizers in the first place, we'll then turn to more precisely look at how sales reps can effectively identify and type those mobilizers in the moment, allowing them to tailor their interactions with far greater precision than relying on more traditional stakeholder attributes. Such as title, role or seniority. That said, notice that even when done well, this kind of tailoring is only half the battle. Once the supplier has effectively identified and connected to a high potential mobilizer, they still must find a way to connect that mobilizer more closely to the rest of the 4.4. In terms of the customers purchase process, in other words, we still have to cross the long second chasm from phase two individual willingness to explore alternate course of action to phase three, the actual collective purchase decision. This is where any definition of tailoring, no matter how precise, is nonetheless still incomplete. For in the second movement of a typical purchase process, the goal here can't simply be creating better individual resonance. It must evolve to ensuring profitable collective consensus. Indeed, as we saw in Chapter one, an ever more precise articulation of individual value at this stage may backfire, insofar as people across the 5.4 aren't aligned already. So at this stage, tailoring efforts must shift dramatically toward aligning mental models around the need for change. Building mobilizer messages. When it comes specifically to tailoring for individual mobilizers, perhaps the smartest marketing application we've seen thus far comes from Jeff Lowe, CEO of Smart Technologies, whom we first heard about in Chapter 6. To provide some context, Smart is in the collaboration business. Their solution enables people to interact and collaborate more effectively across multiple locations around the world, whether it be conference rooms, classrooms or coffee houses. Particularly on the B2B side of their business, Smart provides a combination of hardware and software that allows physically dispersed employees to interact with one another as if they were all in the same conference room working on the exact same whiteboard. Among other things, it's a powerful solution because it's designed to overcome the high level of detachment felt by most remote workers as they struggle to effectively contribute to group discussions through more traditional conference calling and video conferencing technology. However, like any technology provider, SMART has a 5.4 problem. In the B to B setting, for example, they've got to win over the facilities manager, the CIO, the CFO, the head of procurement and likely a wide range of potentially diverse end users. It's only natural, then, that the team would seek out a logical first point of contact to help connect them all. That person could then serve as the primary target of the company's marketing campaigns, sales tools and positioning statements. But who to choose? The head of IT. After all, it's a tech driven solution. The head of facilities, after all, they're the traditional buyer of this type of equipment. The CFO. After all smarts, full blown solution can require a sizable investment. It's a tough choice. No one candidate seemed like the best choice at scale above all others. After an analysis of past one deals for some clues, however, Jeff and the team came to a powerful conclusion. They found they were asking the wrong question. The deals they were most likely to win weren't due to the backing of any one of those individuals versus another. The deals they won were due to the backing of people who actively championed the cause of effective collaboration inside their organization. Effectively, they were collaboration champions, as Smart came to call them. These are smarts mobilizers. But note, completely consistent with CEB research, Jeff and the team discovered they weren't necessarily mobilizers for a supplier. They were mobilizing around an insight, specifically the belief that more effective collaboration can have a dramatic and underappreciated impact on employee performance and engagement. Just as important, they weren't mobilizing because of their role or title or function, but irrespective of those things. They were Jeff or Deb or Kevin or Joanne. Simply individuals who found these surprising benefits of more effective collaboration to be important enough to make them willing to go fight the good fight among the other 4.4 to acquire the kind of solution necessary to help their company make good on that compelling insight. But at that point, all Jeff had so far was an understanding that when these kinds of people appeared in past deals, the company was more likely to win. What he really wanted to identify, however, was a way to predict in advance one who else might be a collaboration champion, and two, how to identify them, and three, what kinds of content might predictably motivate them to mobilize on Smart's behalf. As a marketer, in other words, Jeff was looking for a way to predictably identify and effectively tailor to potential mobilizers at arms length and at scale. To do that, the smart team did something rather clever. Having identified a number of collaboration champions from previous deals, Jeff invited them to join a customer advisory panel which meets in person on a periodic basis to allow SMART to understand their needs and priorities. Consistent with everything we saw in Chapter three, however, the purpose of getting that group together wasn't to best determine how they viewed smart, but rather to figure out how they viewed themselves. Those discussions allowed Jeff and the team not only to formulate a clear mental model of a collaboration champion, but then, even better to begin testing language, messages, insights, and ideas to determine their resonance with the kinds of people most likely to mobilize for smart solution. That work allowed the team to tailor their commercial insights not to CIO's or facilities managers or procurement officers, but to mobilizers. It also resulted in a kind of mobilizer identification toolkit, which enables smart sales reps to identify additional potential mobilizers with just a few simple questions, all based on insights gleaned from working with proven mobilizers from past deals. It's a simple but powerful idea that we especially like for a number of reasons, but in no small part because it's not all that different from what many companies who convene customer panels might do already. That's good news, as it means implementing an idea like this may not prove all that disruptive to whatever a supplier may be doing already. The crucial difference, however, is the makeup of the group convened. By identifying mobilizers from past deals, IE smarts, collaboration champions, Jeff was able not just to tailor to stakeholders, but to very purposefully tailor to mobilizers. That view can then be incorporated into all of the various marketing campaigns, content marketing efforts, and sales support tools necessary to identify, attract, and even create mobilizers in the marketplace. So now that marketing has built a strong hypothesis for who might be immobilizer in the first place and tested the types of messages most likely to resonate with them, the sales team is in a much better position to go out and test those hypotheses in real conversations with real people. All with an eye toward identifying and connecting to the people most willing and able to drive the change necessary to get the deal done. So let's turn to that next and look at deploying tailored commercial insight in the field. As we go through this, you'll notice the same principles can be applied equally well indirectly through both marketing campaigns and channel partners as well. In both cases the principle is exactly the same, centering on the careful observation of customer stakeholders, reactions to a suppliers commercial insight. Identifying and tailoring to mobilizers. If we were to break down the reasons why core reps naturally gravitate to talkers and not mobilizers, it's largely because core reps aren't thinking so much about driving customer change as they are gaining customer access. For core performing reps, access equals action. Not surprisingly then, they take the very fact that a stakeholder is talking to them as an indication of that stakeholders ability to drive change. But the two aren't the same thing. Moreover, a conversation with immobilizer isn't necessarily guaranteed to be an easy one. Unlike the talker, they're going to challenge the Rep and the insight. They're going to test the logic, seek to poke holes in the argument. All to ensure that that idea is rock solid before they take it to anyone else on the team. But it's not just a matter of finding someone willing to have that conversation in the first place. Who reps choose to engage with this kind of conversation really matters. As one Star Rep told us, a lot of my colleagues take whoever they can get. The problem is, if you let the wrong person carry your message, you forever get lumped in with their bad ideas and cut off from influence. Having a bad contact is worse than nothing at all. But how does stars identify the exact type of stakeholder they're engaged with? If you just ask stars, they'll tell you it's gut feel or years of experience. Or they'll say they've never thought about it. They just know who they're talking to. But when you dig deep enough, as we did in a series of structured interviews with high performers at a variety of companies, you find stars. Ability to assess stakeholders is based on a deep and nuanced understanding of how customer organizations operate. Reading between the lines. In the structured interviews we ran with high performers to better understand how they choose stakeholders in the customer organization, it became very clear to us that they naturally have, or perhaps have developed over time, a skeptical mindset. They tend not to accept people at face value. They're always going to dig a couple of layers deeper. High performers look for a handful of tells to know what kind of stakeholder they're engaged with. They're a lot like poker players in that regard. We worked with high performers to get them to help us identify these tells and then work backward to build a mobilizer identification tool that any salesperson or manager could use to sort out whether a customer stakeholder is a mobilizer or not, and if they are a mobilizer, what kind they are. To understand how to make sense of the identification tool and how to tailor to the different types of mobilizers, we've got to dig a little deeper into each of the stakeholder profiles so that we really get to know these profiles and therefore know what to look for in identifying them. Let's start with the three flavors of mobilizer, the Go getter, the teacher, and the skeptic. Each has a unique set of traits that makes them stand out from other stakeholders in the organization. As we explained in Chapter 2GO, getters are relentless and excel at taking ambiguous ideas and translating them into work plans. A go getter isn't the most visionary person and can tend to explain things with data rather than stories, more trees than forest in the way they view things. They're far more rational than emotional. While they can help convince others how something will get done, addressing implementation hurdles, resourcing questions, success measures, et cetera, they are decidedly less skilled in terms of selling an idea and convincing colleagues whether something should be done. The teacher is almost the polar opposite of the Go getter. The teacher is all about the emotional part of the idea. The teacher is passionate and persuasive, A dynamic force within the customer organization who prides himself on his ability to advise others even on matters far outside his area of responsibility or expertise. He gets excited about the idea of taking a contrary position to the group and, through compelling argument, bending the group to his will. The teacher, however, for all his passion and excitement, lacks in some cases severely in terms of project management. He can't be bothered with minor details like resources, budget timelines or metrics. Last, we've got the skeptic. The skeptic feels like a bit of a hybrid of the teacher and the go getter. She's all about precision and having complete certainty in the plan before moving forward. The rest of the organization knows this and sees her support as a huge vote of confidence in any idea. Unfortunately, she sometimes allows the perfect to be the enemy of the good and gets bogged down in seemingly minor details, causing decision delays until open questions can be resolved to her satisfaction. Beware of sweet talkers. What about talkers? You'll recall that we've got three flavors of Talkers, 2 Guides, Friends and Climbers, and each is a bit different. First, let's look at the guide. This is the stakeholder who traffics in information. They know the INS and outs of the customer organization, not just the rules and formal processes that everybody knows, but the informal rules that only those who are really deep and typically very tenured understand. They aren't action oriented per se, so while it's highly likely to hear them dish the dirt on internal politics and power struggles, it's just as unlikely to hear them talking about championing or driving a big change initiative in their organizations. They are more copilot than pilot, in other words. The friend is exactly who he sounds like. He seems to go beyond the Call of Duty in terms of offering help, for instance, making introductions to others across the organization or carving out time from his schedule to sit down and meet with salespeople, even when it seems like everybody else in the company is too busy with important business, like perhaps closing the financial year. Preparing for the rollout of a new enterprise wide system or working on post merger integration. Sometimes it can be surprising how unbusy he seems. One high performer we interviewed told us about a particularly eager friend from one of his customer organizations. There's a guy at this company I've been trying to get in with for a few years now. Whenever I call, he makes time for me. He's super helpful. He usually calls me to let me know when he's going to be in town so that we touch base on things and talk selling strategy. Great guy to have a beer with, but I figured out pretty early on that he wasn't going to help me get a deal done. He'd rather sit on the sidelines than be in the game mixing it up. Then we have the climber. Every organization has its climbers. These are the Whigham guys. What's in it for me? It's all about their careers. Building their fiefdoms, enhancing their own position, currying favor. You get the picture. They are savvy and certainly know how to get what they want, and if a certain supplier's solution helps accomplish that, they will advocate for it. But as soon as they figure out that there is no personal upside for them, they will leave the salesperson hanging in the breeze. These sorts of tails can be very helpful to the average seller as he navigates the customer organization trying to ascertain who to hitch his wagon to. If we're going to ask our sales reps to identify mobilizers, they need to know exactly what they're looking for. Progressively disqualify. After we derive these profiles of our mobilizers and talkers, we worked with high performers to build a simple decision tree that can be easily employed to sort stakeholder types out from one another and identify types of mobilizers within the customer organization. There are two ways to use this tool. The first is as a qualification tool. In other words, we can use it to sort out whether we're engaged with a mobilizer in the first place. The other use is as a mobilizer identification tool to assist us in our tailoring efforts. Obviously we can't put the cart before the horse, so before we can even talk about tailoring, we need to make sure we're not mistakenly engaging with a talker. Let's first talk about qualifying your stakeholders. One surprising, if not a little frustrating, thing we learned in building this tool is that it's easier to identify talkers than mobilizers. So the way to think about the tool is more of a talker disqualification tool than a mobilizer qualification tool. It will get you to the point where you have high confidence that your stakeholder is in fact a mobilizer, but it isn't guaranteed. We'll pull up and talk more about how to test your conclusions after we talk through the first few steps of the tool itself. Now, as we discussed, the idea here is to use certain towels to disqualify talkers until we're certain we're left with only mobilizers. Hopefully by this point in the book you're on board with the importance of commercial insight to any mobilizer engagement effort. It's central as well to the process of qualifying mobilizers. The first step in this exercise is to lead with a thought provoking insight and gauge the customer's reaction to it. Remember, commercial insight is the mobilizer dog whistle. Only they can hear it, and only they will understand the potential that holds for their organizations. This is what you're looking for right off the bat and engagement around the insight you've just put on the table. You've approached the customer with an insight or set of insights that teaches them something new and changes the way they think about their business. Done well, this is a provocative insight, Provocative because it challenges the customers current worldview, the mental model they have about how things are supposed to work. It's not unlike what you might see in one of those detective shows. The detectives have the suspect in the interrogation room warming him up with some softball questions and then boom, they drop a critical piece of information on the suspect just to gauge his reaction. Just like a master detective, that's what we're looking for. We want to gauge our stakeholders reaction to our commercial insight. If you approach the customer with valuable insight, how do they react? Do they tune you out or do they stay engaged? Someone who doesn't even engage with the content of your teaching is almost certainly unlikely to drive change around that idea across the customer organization. If they don't engage at all, or simply accept the insight at face value, chances are pretty good you're dealing with either a blocker, we'll talk more about how to handle blockers later in the book, who's likely against the idea, or a friend or a guide who is never going to dig deep enough to forge consensus around the idea. Alternatively, do they lean forward and ask thought provoking questions? Do they dig deeper? Do they seem a bit skeptical at first? If so, that's a good sign. Because while it scares the daylights out of the average Rep, customer skepticism is a good thing. It means that our insight is resonating. Or at least it's resonating enough to get a reaction. Even better, skepticism is observable. It's concrete. It means that the stakeholder is engaged not with the supplier, but with the idea. That's so much more important because that's what's going to ultimately mobilize action. So the first step on the identification journey is the customer saying. OK, this is interesting, but before I do anything with this idea, I'm going to make sure it makes sense and that it's in our best interest. Star performers told us that if a stakeholder behaves this way with a vendor, chances are pretty good they behave this same way with their colleagues. That's good, because it means that any idea this person brings to the table inside the company is much more likely to be seen as credible as colleagues know this person has high standards for good ideas. But just engaging with your commercial insight isn't enough to know that you've got a mobilizer. Instead, we need to surface a second tail. What we need to know next is how they talk about their needs and their challenges. Do they talk about the greater group, department, or company as a whole? Or are they in it for themselves and talk only about their needs? If they focus just on themselves, that is not a horse you want to hitch your wagon to. Why? If the customer isn't thinking about other people, they're likely in it for themselves, and that's something they're colleagues have probably come to recognize over time as well. This person, who is undoubtedly A climber, is the worst person your idea could be associated with, as the distaste colleagues carry for the climber can easily rub off on you. If others see a supplier as being joined at the hip with a climber, it can be the kiss of death for a deal, since others, typically out of personal spite, will line up to fight the climber on the proposal or solution they're advocating for, irrespective of whether it makes business sense. Not a good place to be. So what next? Well, before we go any further, take a step back and look at how far we've already come with just two towels. By simply observing carefully how a stakeholder reacts to quality, thought provoking insight, we have largely determined whether or not we're speaking with a mobilizer. As long as we start in the right place, we're only two questions away from finding the right person. The conversations we had with star performers taught us that even if our stakeholder clears these hurdles, we still can't be certain that we've got a mobilizer. Only once we test the willingness and ability of our would be mobilizer to actually mobilize can we be certain. How do we do that? By giving them an assignment and seeing if they come through. Give them something they value and then ask them to do some homework and return. This isn't Download your org chart from your intranet and e-mail it to me. Rather, it's something like go out and research something that's happening in your company and come back to me with your point of view. If they don't do the homework, it's a real red flag. Either they can't get it done or they're not on board. Another idea is to test the customer's influence in the organization. Throughout the course of any given sale, reps have several meetings with customers, often with larger groups of stakeholders. But unlike the core reps, high performers will use these group meetings as tells. They'll ask the customer to set up the meeting, then watch who shows up. If the people who matter most aren't there, your customer stakeholder has a lot less influence than either he thought or you'd hoped. Now, we could stop here, because at this stage we have several pretty good signs that this person is both credible and influential enough to be immobilizer. But as we think about tailoring to mobilizers, it turns out we can dig still one level deeper based on what type of mobilizer we're dealing with. Don't let the title fool you. In perhaps one of the most counterintuitive findings of all of our mobilizer research, we found that neither title nor seniority is statistically predictive of mobilizer tendencies. Normally it would be logical to assume, given their particularly strong ability to drive organizational change and build consensus, that most mobilizers would be relatively senior. But that's not the case. When we examine the distribution of mobilizers, talkers, and blockers across senior decision makers, we find they're actually spread pretty evenly. In other words, neither seniority level nor role in the purchase is predictive of being a mobilizer. A senior executive with decision making power is just as likely to be a blocker as a mobilizer. Even more troubling, they are just as likely to be a talker. This last finding in particular is especially concerning. For when our core performing sales Rep bumps into a senior level talker. They've unknowingly fallen into a perilous position. Given their natural predilection and classic training to find and meet the senior decision maker, from the core reps perspective, they've just found the Holy Grail. A senior decision maker not only willing to take a meeting but to openly share information. One can almost guarantee that that Rep will come out of that meeting walking on air. Next stop, close deal Friday of next week at the latest. Yet that Rep is surprised when, two months later, that deal still hasn't gone anywhere. All because they failed to realize the difference between a senior executive and a mobilizer. The potential cost of conflating the two can be huge, if nothing else in lost time and false expectations. Bottom line in the world of complex consensus based sales and old school strategy of finding friendly senior level advocates will no longer cut it. As one head of sales put it to us, if we want to get anything done, we've got to take our senior leader goggles off and put our mobilizer goggles on in every deal we do. To sum it all up, you can't find mobilizers on an org chart. They're not the VP of this or the Senior director of that. Role entitled don't matter. They're individuals who mobilize irrespective of the org chart, not because of it.  Identifying and tailoring to mobilizer types.  So now that we've qualified our stakeholder as a mobilizer, the next step is to identify what kind of mobilizer we're talking to. Simply put, even though we've likely found a mobilizer, we haven't determined yet how exactly to engage them, depending on the type we're talking to. That all depends on what kind of mobilizer they are. And you'll recall that there are three different types of mobilizer. So if we continue to move through the process, the third tell is their communication style. Do they speak in terms of actions and facts, or in terms of stories and opinions? Are they more rational or emotional? This will tell us whether we found a Go getter or skeptic on the one hand. Or a teacher on the other. This is important. Tailoring our approach to the type of mobilizer we're dealing with will ensure not just that they are fully engaged with what we're saying, but as we'll see in the coming chapters that we're going to have to support each of these mobilizers a little bit differently to have the best shot at forging consensus. Let's spend a bit of time talking about the basics of how to tailor to the three different mobilizer types.  Chart description   Description of the Go Getter Engagement road map.  The engagement road map is broken down the customer buying process into four stages. Stage one is learn. Stage two is defined need. Stage 3 is assess options, Stage 4 is make decisions. The other category down the left side is first he seller objectives. So seller objectives for the learn stage are focus on the big picture, highlight the big picture implications from the inside. Two under defined needs incorporate organizational needs over go getters immediate needs. Three, under assess options, temper rational mindset with emotional benefits from proposed change. And then four under make decisions, reiterate your key differentiators and why those matter so much? Second stage for the seller is the seller execution steps, so under the learned phase. You create structure around the proposed vision and you use hard facts and numbers to build a go getters trust. Under the defined Need stage, the Seller Execution steps are refined, go Getters needs, and jointly uncover unexplored organizational needs. And secondly, ensure needs will drive organizational consensus. Seller execution steps for the Assess option stage. Sensitize go getter to the unstated emotional needs of their of other stakeholders and armed go getter with emotionally oriented ways to handle objections while building consensus. And then the fourth set of sellar execution steps under the make decisions phase are encouraged go getter to rearticulated the story for change to other stakeholders. And Co developer clear implementation plan with the go getter. And then the final. Thing to watch for are the warning signs. So under the learned phase, the warning signs are understands new vision but articulates A narrow view or prematurely pushes for consensus with little political savvy. The second group of warning signs for the. Mobiliser under defined needs are hasn't fully considered other stakeholders needs. And prioritizes clarity of steps over emotional appeal. Then the warning signs under Assess options are drives change too aggressively and gets bogged down on solution details as deal advances. And then the final set of warning signs under the make decision phase. Is that the they overly rely on data to build a business case and they fail to engage all key decision makers hoping to accelerate deal.  A great way to think about how to tailor your approach to these mobilizer types is to map their styles against the steps in a typical customer purchase process. First, let's look at the Go getter. A Go getter is going to be interested in the big picture, but they are going to quickly want to understand the implementation details. The salesperson must be mindful of this. If the vision sounds too pie in the sky for the go getter, she will push the salesperson to get specific. So a conversation with a Go getter that is all about the vision and light on the details is likely to be over before it starts. At the same time, the seller must guard against letting the Go getter get too narrowly focused too fast. What was designed to be a big picture conversation about a big transformative idea can quickly devolve into a lesson in Six Sigma project planning if the seller isn't careful. Before you know it, your meeting is over and the Go getter might have a clear sense for the project plan, but won't be equipped to rally others with the emotional side of the proposed change.  Chart description   Description of the  Teacher  Engagement road map.  The teacher engagement road map has the following characteristics. Again, the customer buying process is split between 4 stages of learn, defined needs, assess options and make decisions. That seller objectives in the teacher engagement road map. Include under the learn. Stage. Crammed the teachers vision to what's achievable and feasible for both parties. Under defined needs. Focus the conversation on the economic needs of the different stakeholders involved in the Change under Assess Options. Steer economic reasoning on the options available and their advantages and disadvantages. And within Make Decisions phase, create an implementation road map with next steps and timelines. The second category is the seller execution steps, so under the learn phase. Firstly, bring specificity to the teacher's vision and ensure you're not over promising on the change. Secondly, use stories to build trust. Thirdly, jointly think through the impact of the new vision on business results. Under the defined needs phase, it's based on past deals, share likely stakeholders needs, provide proof points and data to back the teachers vision. Under the Assess options phase. Number one, assist teacher in creating a solution checklist to assess possible alternatives. Number two, provide supporting research to mitigate objections #3 arrive at detailed plan on building broader consensus. And then under the final stage of the buying process, which is make decisions. The center execution steps are Supplement the teacher's narrative with data that builds urgency for change. And secondly, jointly agree on stakeholder responsibilities, next steps and timelines. So then the warning signs within the. Model. By stage are as follows within the learn stage. Firstly, radically increases solution scope. Or they get overly excited with the new direction. Under the defined needs phase, they talk in generalities or at the macro level. And they're unclear on the impact of individual stakeholders. Under the Assess options phase. The teacher goes with his gut or natural instincts. And or quick is quick to dismiss different options. And under the make decisions phase, the warning signs are that. This mobiliser sways opinion without adequate deliberation. And secondly it doesn't articulate the finer planned details.  Teachers are a very different animal, as we discussed earlier, sort of the polar opposite of the Go getter. So engaging with a teacher, the seller is going to want to tailor his approach by appealing to the teacher's desire for a grand, sweeping vision. Selling an idea with stories and metaphor is going to get the teacher excited about the opportunity that lies ahead. At the same time, if the teacher is allowed to take an idea and run with it, there's a good chance that he may radically increase the scope of the proposal and get shot down when floating it by colleagues. So while sellers should appeal to what naturally makes teachers tick, they'll want to be mindful to infuse the discussion with details on the economic benefits and expected payoff of the proposed change. Otherwise, teachers will anchor entirely on the vision, ignoring the important implementation details and potentially raising alarm bells with other stakeholders. Finally, when dealing with a skeptic, the seller will want to tailor his approach by encouraging questions and exploration, but at the same time remaining steadfast in terms of instilling confidence that the supplier is a reliable and credible partner when it comes to executing disruptive large scale change. Using data is a key tailoring point when engaging with skeptics. They are persuaded by rhetoric or promises. Instead, they need to be convinced that risks are being controlled for and uncertainties are being run to ground. But like the Go getter, while it's important to tailor your approach with a skeptic by meeting their challenges and questions head on, the seller needs at some point to get off the witness stand and spend time emphasizing the story and the vision that will be required to get others on board. Each mobilizers strengths demand a tailored engagement approach. Pulling the right levers can make all the difference in terms of getting that mobilizer bought in and supportive of the proposed change. At the same time, while the seller wants to tailor to each mobilizers perspective, they must also guard against allowing those perspectives to overtake the message. A mobilizer strength, in other words, can also become a weakness when it comes to getting others on board, effectively grounding an idea before it ever has a chance to take flight. So that's it. A few simple steps to determine not only whether we're talking to a mobilizer, but also what kind of mobilizer we found and how a salesperson should tailor their approach. This is a simple, concrete road map for determining what otherwise feels more like art than science. It's a mobilizer qualification and identification road map with three easy steps. It's the kind of thing star performers have hardwired into their brains without even realizing it. In fact, after we built this tool, we went back and showed it to the high performers we had interviewed and they said, Yep, makes complete sense. They just never thought to write it down. Chart description   Description of the  skeptic  Engagement road map.  The skeptic engagement road map has the following characteristics. Again, the customer buying process is split between 4 stages of learn, defined needs, assess options and make decisions. So seller objectives under the learned phase are focused on getting by in encourage more questions and exploration. Under the defined needs, phase seller objectives are arm skeptic with vision that appeals to the business more readily. Under the Assess options phase, the seller objectives are tempo rational mindset with a broader change story backed with key data points and under the make decisions phase so objectives are ensured the vision supersedes the change implications. And then? The seller execution steps by phase are as follows under the learn phase firstly. Use a compelling teaching insight that drives urgency for change. Secondly, use both data and testimonials to build trust. Thirdly, reduce ambiguity by detailing how other companies have taken similar action. Under the define needs phase, the seller execution steps are to jointly assess how needs will vary across the organization and secondly, help articulate the common needs across the organization that will anchor the new vision for change. Under the assess options phase, the seller execution steps are firstly sensitive sensitized skeptic to the emotional needs of other stakeholders and secondly, arm the skeptic with emotionally oriented ways to handle objections when building consensus. Under the make decisions phase, the seller execution steps are present a project plan that gives the skeptic more certainty around implementation steps and secondly break the implementation down to bite size pieces with clear wins at each stage. And then finally. The warning signs by stage are as follows during the learn stage. The mobiliser struggles with change implications and or is unconvinced on the supplier's ability to partner. Under the defined needs stage. The mobilizer gets lost in the implications and or focuses on stakeholder differences and exceptions, not big picture needs. Under the Assess Options stage, the warning signs are that. The mobiliser gets bogged down on solution details and or loses sight of the broader vision. Under the final stage, make decisions. The warning signs are that the mobiliser stalls to change if absolute certainty doesn't exist and or looks for constant reassurances.  Now that we have an appreciation for how to identify and qualify mobilizers more broadly as well as how to adapt our approach to engaging with different flavors of mobilizers all through precise and purposeful tailoring. We've still made it to only phase two of a typical customer purchase process, securing individual willingness to explore alternate course of action. We're still a long way off from an actual closed deal, as we have yet to cross that long second chasm spanning the solutions graveyard of stalled deals resulting from lowest common denominator thinking. So how do we think about tailoring here? Well, let's look at the answer conceptually first and then we'll get after it more practically in our review of Taking Control across the following two chapters.  Tailoring for group consensus.  Having identified someone willing not only to consider an alternate course of action but also to mobilize for that action among their colleagues, we now need to transform that into group consensus. This is a tough road to hoe, moving from me to we. Here we have to bring in other stakeholders and win them over as well. Procurement has to get involved, finance has to approve, legal has to look things over. As we noted in chapter one, This is why the movement from phase two to phase three is so much longer than the move from phase one to phase two. It's exactly here that a supplier organization must modify its approach to tailoring if it's to have any chance at successfully connecting those stakeholders to each other. For, it's safe to say, even for those organizations deeply familiar with our original Challenger work, the most logical approach to winning customers collective buy in would still be some application of the track them all down and win them all over strategy we first saw in Chapter One. So if we think back to our three phase purchase process, imagine identifying each of the 5.4 stakeholders, conducting the necessary due diligence to identify their needs and priorities, carefully constructing an independent mental model for each, and then systematically breaking down each of those models. And building up an alternate view designed to resonate directly with whatever that person cares about most. Essentially, it's breaking down 5.4 A's and building up 5.4 B's, collecting a yes from each stakeholder until everyone is on board, with the required change embedded in that suppliers Commercial insight. Graphically speaking, this process would look like a series of parallel lines from left to right across the purchase process, depicting 5.4 closely related but nonetheless largely independent commercial insight interventions. Now, not only would a process like that be extraordinarily time consuming, it would be incredibly difficult to execute as well as it would require the construction and deconstruction of 5.4 independent mental models in serial fashion. But more to the point, even if an approach like this were practical, notice what would happen as those 5.4 stakeholders came together to consider a collective action. Insofar as the individual bees that they've bought into independently don't fully align, then those stakeholders will naturally downsize that deal until they do. That tells us, even when done well. In other words, a challenger sale based on 5.4 different flavors of the same commercial insight can lead to just as much trouble as a sale based on no insight at all, as either way customers will be forced to do on their own what the supplier failed to do on their behalf. Namely, establish clear alignment across a common BA mutually agreed upon alternate mental model. So what's the alternative? As we'll see in greater detail in Chapter 8, the alternative is to break down the A individually, but then build up the B collectively, effectively tailoring the delivery and consideration of the commercial insight in a manner that not only wins over a mobilizer but anticipates the potential objections. Concerns and alternate perspectives of the other 4.4. So, to be sure, individual stakeholder outreach must necessarily speak to each person's particular views and priorities. But it must be done in a way that simultaneously builds a mutually agreeable common vision and steers that person closer to a view shareable by their 4.4 other colleagues. In the world of the 5.4, tailoring isn't only about helping stakeholders see themselves in the suppliers insight, but just as importantly about helping them see each other. It's about creating convergence. Despite stakeholders inevitable differences, suppliers must find a way to help members of the 5.4 converge on the same mental model. A mental model that leads them to collectively value the kind of support available only through that supplier sustainably unique strengths. Just to bring us full circle, This is why we find commercial insights so powerful. For it allows the supplier to create that kind of convergence not just around supplier selection, but insofar as commercial insight teaches customers to address a problem or pursue an opportunity that they otherwise didn't realize they had. Also around solution identification and even problem definition. Commercial insight, in other words, initiates customer contact at the very beginning of the purchase process. Or put another way. Done well, Commercial Insight has the power to initiate a new purchase process altogether, leading customers collectively on a journey across the Me to WE mountain. But only when that commercial insight is tailored to create convergence from the very beginning. That said, Commercial Insight cannot carry the day for convergence on its own. Creating that kind of customer connection will take a significant amount of work on the part of the supplier well beyond building and deploying well tailored commercial insight itself. In fact, our research has uncovered a way in which suppliers must take control of the customers buying process to ensure not only that the 5.4 can converge around their commercial insight. But also that they will. So that's where we'll turn next.
