This excerpt from the Diagnostic and Structural Manual of Mental Illnesses (DSM-5-TV) discusses various aspects of Anxiety Disorders, including characteristics, diagnoses, prevalence, and various facets of several specific anxiety disorders.

At its core, Anxiety Disorders comprise of excessive fear and anxiety and related behavioral disturbances that differ from normal fear by being excessive or persisting beyond developmentally appropriate periods. They primarily develop in childhood and tend to persist if not treated. Various anxiety disorders include:

1. Separation Anxiety Disorder: An individual with this disorder experiences excessive fear or anxiety about separation from attachment figures to a degree that is developmentally inappropriate.

2. Selective Mutism: Someone with this disorder consistently fails to speak in social situations where there is an expectation to speak.

3. Specific Phobia: This disorder is characterized by fear and anxiety about or avoidance of specific objects or situations.

4. Social Anxiety Disorder: Individuals experience fear or anxiety about social interactions and situations that involve the possibility of being scrutinized.

5. Panic Disorder: Recurrent, unexpected panic attacks occur in these individuals and is marked by surges of intense fear or discomfort.

6. Agoraphobia: This is where fear and anxiety occur in various situations, often involving the feeling that escape may be difficult. 

7. Generalized Anxiety Disorder: Persistent excessive anxiety and worry about various domains are present, such as work and school performance. 

These disorders are often associated with increased suicidal thoughts, with separation anxiety disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, and specific phobia being the most associated with the transition from suicidal thoughts to suicide attempts.

Separation Anxiety Disorder is detailed in this excerpt – it is marked by "Developmentally inappropriate and excessive fear or anxiety concerning separation from those to whom the individual is attached". The diagnostic criteria stipulate that the fear, anxiety or avoidance persists for at least four weeks in children/ adolescents and typically six months or more in adults. 

Key features of this disorder include distress when anticipating or experiencing separation from home or attachment figures, persistent worry about losing attachment figures or harm befalling them, fear of experiencing an event that causes separation from a major attachment figure, reluctance to go out due to fear of separation, refusal to go to sleep without being near a major attachment figure among others.

Separation Anxiety Disorder may be heritable, with a prevalence of approximately 4% in children and decreases from childhood through adolescence and adulthood with a 12 month prevalence of 0.9% to 1.9% in adults. 

Environmental and genetic factors play a role in the disorder's development. The individual’s excessive demands due to this disorder often become a source of frustration for family members. 

Thus, it's evident that Anxiety Disorders have diverse implications - from daily functioning and social interactions to mental wellbeing.